Many of the examples that I showed in the previous videos, the previous section on functional interfaces
and lambda expressions, could have been characterized as a consumer interface with a method simply
printed information to the console or simple function, return to primitive data type of some sort,
not related to its arguments.
The introduction to this section in the last video listed the five most common types of devices, namely
operator, consumer function, predicate and supplier.
So let's take a minute to review some info about each.
The following table shows most of the interfaces online are all represented in the Javadoc YouTube dot
function package, including some of the primitive data counterparts.
The first column represents the generic interface, the second columnists, some of the primitive type
devices that correspond to the generic interfaces, these interfaces cover a wide swath of functionality.
So looking at the functional interface, we've got unary operator, which of course is generic.
As you can see, you could take an angle, brackets, function, interface top.
We've got double unary operator, intermediary operator and long unary operator.
Generic function interface method using apply their Aletta description.
This represents an operation on a single operation that produces a result of the same type.
S It's operand next functional interface binary operator and we've got the same three there.
We've got double binary operator, independent operator and Longpont operator, the functional device
type generic functional device methods apply and this represents an operation to operate at the same
time, producing a result of the same type as the operands.
And you can say that in the generic function interface method.
Next, functional generic interface, consumer functional device type player, we've got double consumer
and consumer and consumer, the generic function interface method returns void, it's called, except
because he's got one argument there and that represents an operation that accepts a single input argument
and returns no result.
The next functional interface there is the consumer, it's a generic device, you can see there two
types, new functional device top that we've got obj double consumer obj into consumer and long kushima.
The interface method there again returns now it's called Accept and it's got two arguments here.
So this represents an operation that accepts to input arguments and doesn't return a result.
Next, functional generic interface predicate function interface type player.
We've got double predicate int predicate and long predicate.
The method returns are booleans call test with one argument.
This represents a predicate, a boolean value function of one argument.
So the next functional generic interface there by predicate there is a functional interface talk there.
The generic function interface method returns a call test reget.
It's got two arguments.
Say this represents a predicate, a boolean value, the function of two arguments.
The next functional generic device supplier we've got for their building supplier, double supply,
its supplier, long supplier, the method returns the top to find in the generic method better they'll
get.
It represents a supplier of results.
The next generic function device is function and functional devices type to double function in function,
lung function, lung to function, lung function, etc..
It's quite a few there in terms of results.
It's called appli.
And you can say that it accepts what argument misrepresents the function and accepts one argument and
produces a result.
And the last functional, generically defined by function type to double, by function, to long by
a function, to eat by function.
You can see that it returns.
A result of type are the method names are of these two arguments.
This represents a function that accepts two arguments and produces a result.
So moving on in this video and the next one, we're going to be specifying, exploring the operator
interfaces unary operator and binary operator.
So the unary operator accepts a single argument, presumably perform some sort of operation or set of
operations on this one argument, then returns the value of the argument after the operations occur.
They by one zero eight one on part one course, I talked about unary operations in Java, such as prefix
and postfix decrements, et cetera.
So you can think of this interface for such type of operations where the result is only dependent on
the single argument.
The unary operate a functional interface as shown below, you can see an abstract method is not declared
here.
That's because it's inherited from function, the binary operator except two occupants of the same type
and presumably performs calculations or operations using both arguments, keeping a result of the same
type in the Java language.
Binary operators are addition, subtraction, multiplication and division operators.
For example.
The binary operator functionally defies the Shambhala.
And again, you can see an abstract method is not declared since it's inherited from by function.
But let's go back to some code.
We need a new project in intelligence of Cormie, built in interfaces, as you can see there, this
create a new class we're going to call a first class operator example's.
This case consists of an interface that here, my unary operator that basically mocks the unary operator
in the job, its function package.
So it's got a generic type, A method called apply with parameter type T.
The returns are result of type T.
If you go down looking at our public operator examples class and say that we've got a main method that
firstly creates some test data and creates a multiple lambda expressions.
And looking at those lambda expressions, we've got add five to first, which uses chapter two that
function, that unary operator.
We've got add five to first again, which uses the custom interface at the top of this file.
All things being equal, it demonstrates how to create your own unary operator average first two, which
uses the javadoc to that function of binary operator to take two integer values to get the average.
The binary operator interface has two static methods.
I'm demonstrating here how to use this with known comparators.
Firstly, the binary operator matched by returns of binary operator, which will get the max of two
values using a comparator and binary operated by which returns a binary operator, which will get the
middle of two values using a computer and looking out further on down.
We've got a follow up there.
This leads to the test data applying all the lambda expressions using the apply method in each instance.
But since when this code.
Now, the reason why I wanted to demonstrate the creation of my own interface, the machinery operator
interface, is to take the mystery out of the supply functional interface if there is any mystery for
you.
But also imagine once setting up this interface any time you wanted to use it or to creating a library
of such interfaces.
Neither is necessary.
If you familiarize yourself with the interfaces in the Java utility function package.
The operator extends the function interface and the Badreya operator extends the function interface,
so both have two additional methods compose.
And then I'm going to hold on explaining these methods until I review the function and by function interfaces
in the video following the next one.
But coming up in the next video, let's look at the predicate interface.
See you in the next video.